README.md, before:

# code-challenge

This repo contains the Terraform to create a VPC, subnet, GKE cluster with 2 nodes and autoscaling enabled. It uses GCS for it's backend remote-state leveraging [code-challenge-tfstate](https://github.com/2ffs2nns/code-challenge-tfstate]) It is expected that a new bucket will be created prior to deploying this Terraform configuration.

GCS buckets support native locking. If the `wrapper.py` is run twice in parallel a locking error will occur. ie

```bash
Error: Error acquiring the state lock

Error message: writing "gs://code-challenge-62079-tfstate/terraform/development/gke-code-challenge/default.tflock" failed: googleapi: Error 412: At least one of the pre-conditions you specified did not hold., conditionNotMet
Lock Info:
   ID:        1234567890123456
   Path:      gs://code-challenge-62079-tfstate/terraform/development/gke-code-challenge/default.tflock
   Operation: OperationTypeApply
   Who:       ehoffmann@Erics-MacBook-Air.local
   Version:   1.9.5
   Created:   2024-10-03 19:02:30.730822 +0000 UTC
```

>NOTE: It is required to create a new GCS bucket and manually modify `backend.tf` with your unique GCS bucket to run this code-challenge.

## Monitoring & Alerts

Monitoring, logging and alerting is enabled with three custom metrics

* GKE Container - High CPU Limit Utilization
* GKE Container - High Memory Limit Utilization
* GKE Container - Restarts

>NOTE: Please modify the default `custom_metrics_email` variable.

## Python Wrapper script

There is a `wrapper.py` script to manage the deployment of this Terraform. It allows customization of the deployment by supporting different tfvars files and the backend.

```bash
    Usage: python wrapper.py <action>
     --var_file=<path_to_var_file>
     --gcloud_env=<gcloud_env>
     --project_name=<project_name> [--working_dir=<working_directory>]

    Available actions: init, apply, plan, destroy
    With the init action, the combination of <gcloud_env> and <project_name> set the GCS backend_config. ie
    terraform init -backend-config='prefix=terraform/<gcloud_env>/<project_name>/'
```

The thinking with the `gcloud_env` parameter is to support different environments/projects ie `production | staging | development`.

>NOTE: You must install the required dependencies with `pip install -r requirements.txt`

To deploy, run the following commands.

```bash
python wrapper.py init --var_file=development.tfvars --gcloud_env=development --project_name=code-challenge-tfstate

python wrapper.py plan --var_file=development.tfvars --gcloud_env=development --project_name=code-challenge-tfstate

python wrapper.py apply --var_file=development.tfvars --gcloud_env=development --project_name=code-challenge-tfstate
```

>NOTE: Be sure to modify/change the default project_id and region in `development.tfvars` to your specific values. Also, update the bucket in `backend.tf`

## Best Practices

Git-actions are setup to run against all pull-requests covering `tflint`, `tf-fmt`, `checkov` and `bandit`. Checkov and Bandit are SAST security tools for Terraform and Python. There is also a `pre-commit` hook setup to auto-generate Terraform docs using `terraform-docs`. Although it is not automated with a hook or action, I also used `inkdrop` to visualize a diagram of this project/configuration.

<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
# Terraform

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_google"></a> [google](#provider\_google) | 6.5.0 |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_autoscaling_max_node_count"></a> [autoscaling\_max\_node\_count](#input\_autoscaling\_max\_node\_count) | Max number of nodes to scale up to | `number` | `2` | no |
| <a name="input_custom_metrics_email"></a> [custom\_metrics\_email](#input\_custom\_metrics\_email) | Email to receive custom metric alerts | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_deletion_protection"></a> [deletion\_protection](#input\_deletion\_protection) | Prevent terraform from nuking the cluster if true | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_gcloud_env"></a> [gcloud\_env](#input\_gcloud\_env) | Environment to deploy into. ie production, staging, development | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_gke_cluster_name"></a> [gke\_cluster\_name](#input\_gke\_cluster\_name) | GKE cluster name | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_guest_accelerator_count"></a> [guest\_accelerator\_count](#input\_guest\_accelerator\_count) | Guest accelerator count. | `string` | `2` | no |
| <a name="input_machine_type"></a> [machine\_type](#input\_machine\_type) | Default machine\_type | `string` | `"e2-micro"` | no |
| <a name="input_node_pool_disk_size_gb"></a> [node\_pool\_disk\_size\_gb](#input\_node\_pool\_disk\_size\_gb) | Default disk size for nodes. | `string` | `"50"` | no |
| <a name="input_project_id"></a> [project\_id](#input\_project\_id) | Default gcloud project to launch this cluster into | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_project_name"></a> [project\_name](#input\_project\_name) | Project name, typically the git repository | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_region"></a> [region](#input\_region) | Region for subnets | `string` | `"us-central1"` | no |
| <a name="input_release_channel"></a> [release\_channel](#input\_release\_channel) | Set the release channel, RAPID, REGULAR, STABLE | `string` | `"REGULAR"` | no |
| <a name="input_service_account_name"></a> [service\_account\_name](#input\_service\_account\_name) | gcloud service account name to use. | `string` | `"terraform"` | no |
| <a name="input_skip_service_account_creation"></a> [skip\_service\_account\_creation](#input\_skip\_service\_account\_creation) | Ignore creating new service account if the name already exists. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_subnet"></a> [subnet](#input\_subnet) | Primary project\_id subnet cidr range | `string` | `"10.0.0.0/16"` | no |
| <a name="input_use_guest_accelerator"></a> [use\_guest\_accelerator](#input\_use\_guest\_accelerator) | Use guest accelerator | `bool` | `false` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_cluster_ca_certificate"></a> [cluster\_ca\_certificate](#output\_cluster\_ca\_certificate) | Root certificate of the cluster |
| <a name="output_cluster_endpoint"></a> [cluster\_endpoint](#output\_cluster\_endpoint) | Cluster Endpoint |
| <a name="output_cluster_id"></a> [cluster\_id](#output\_cluster\_id) | Cluster ID |
| <a name="output_cluster_name"></a> [cluster\_name](#output\_cluster\_name) | Cluster Name |
| <a name="output_container_admin_iam_member_role"></a> [container\_admin\_iam\_member\_role](#output\_container\_admin\_iam\_member\_role) | n/a |
| <a name="output_logging_dashboard_url"></a> [logging\_dashboard\_url](#output\_logging\_dashboard\_url) | n/a |
| <a name="output_monitoring_dashboard_url"></a> [monitoring\_dashboard\_url](#output\_monitoring\_dashboard\_url) | n/a |
| <a name="output_network_admin_iam_member_role"></a> [network\_admin\_iam\_member\_role](#output\_network\_admin\_iam\_member\_role) | n/a |
| <a name="output_network_name"></a> [network\_name](#output\_network\_name) | n/a |
| <a name="output_network_self_link"></a> [network\_self\_link](#output\_network\_self\_link) | n/a |
| <a name="output_node_pool_id"></a> [node\_pool\_id](#output\_node\_pool\_id) | Node pool Id |
| <a name="output_service_account_email"></a> [service\_account\_email](#output\_service\_account\_email) | n/a |
| <a name="output_service_account_id"></a> [service\_account\_id](#output\_service\_account\_id) | n/a |
| <a name="output_subnetwork_ip_range"></a> [subnetwork\_ip\_range](#output\_subnetwork\_ip\_range) | n/a |
| <a name="output_subnetwork_name"></a> [subnetwork\_name](#output\_subnetwork\_name) | n/a |
| <a name="output_subnetwork_region"></a> [subnetwork\_region](#output\_subnetwork\_region) | n/a |
| <a name="output_subnetwork_self_link"></a> [subnetwork\_self\_link](#output\_subnetwork\_self\_link) | n/a |
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->

## Diagram

<div align=center>
<img src="diagram.svg" alt="diagram" width="300"/>
</div>

Commit message:

fix: update docs, new envs

README.md, after:

# code-challenge

This repo contains the Terraform to create a VPC, subnet, GKE cluster with 2 nodes and autoscaling enabled. It uses GCS for it's backend remote-state leveraging [code-challenge-tfstate](https://github.com/2ffs2nns/code-challenge-tfstate]) It is expected that a new bucket will be created prior to deploying this Terraform configuration.

GCS buckets support native locking. If the `wrapper.py` is run twice in parallel a locking error will occur. ie

```bash
Error: Error acquiring the state lock

Error message: writing "gs://code-challenge-62079-tfstate/terraform/development/gke-code-challenge/default.tflock" failed: googleapi: Error 412: At least one of the pre-conditions you specified did not hold., conditionNotMet
Lock Info:
   ID:        1234567890123456
   Path:      gs://code-challenge-62079-tfstate/terraform/development/gke-code-challenge/default.tflock
   Operation: OperationTypeApply
   Who:       ehoffmann@Erics-MacBook-Air.local
   Version:   1.9.5
   Created:   2024-10-03 19:02:30.730822 +0000 UTC
```

>NOTE: It is required to create a new GCS bucket and manually modify `backend.tf` with your unique GCS bucket to run this code-challenge.

## Monitoring & Alerts

Monitoring, logging and alerting is enabled with three custom metrics

* GKE Container - High CPU Limit Utilization
* GKE Container - High Memory Limit Utilization
* GKE Container - Restarts

>NOTE: Please modify the default `custom_metrics_email` variable.

## Python Wrapper script

There is a `wrapper.py` script to manage the deployment of this Terraform. It allows customization of the deployment by supporting different tfvars files and the backend.

```bash
    Usage: python wrapper.py <action>
     --var_file=<path_to_var_file>
     --gcloud_env=<gcloud_env>
     --project_name=<project_name> [--working_dir=<working_directory>]

    Available actions: init, apply, plan, destroy
    With the init action, the combination of <gcloud_env> and <project_name> set the GCS backend_config. ie
    terraform init -backend-config='prefix=terraform/<gcloud_env>/<project_name>/'
```

The thinking with the `gcloud_env` parameter is to support different environments/projects ie `production | staging | development`.

>NOTE: You must install the required dependencies with `pip install -r requirements.txt`

To deploy, run the following commands.

```bash
python wrapper.py init --var_file=development.tfvars --gcloud_env=development --project_name=code-challenge-tfstate

python wrapper.py plan --var_file=development.tfvars --gcloud_env=development --project_name=code-challenge-tfstate

python wrapper.py apply --var_file=development.tfvars --gcloud_env=development --project_name=code-challenge-tfstate
```

>NOTE: Be sure to modify/change the default project_id and region in `development.tfvars` to your specific values. Also, update the bucket in `backend.tf`

## Best Practices

Git-actions are setup to run against all pull-requests covering `tflint`, `tf-fmt`, `checkov` and `bandit`. Checkov and Bandit are SAST security tools for Terraform and Python. There is also a `pre-commit` hook setup to auto-generate Terraform docs using `terraform-docs`. Although it is not automated with a hook or action, I also used `inkdrop` to visualize a diagram of this project/configuration.

## Questions

Q: How would you handle errors and exceptions in your Terraform script and Python wrapper script?

A: I added exception blocks as appropriate and switched the logging from `info` to `error`.

Q: What are the benefits of using a remote state backend?

A: Multiple team members can work on the project w/out having to copy/move the tfstate around manually. Also, with versioning and locking support there is builtin protection and redundancy.

Q: How would you implement a continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) pipeline for your Terraform script and Python wrapper script?

A: git-actions are a straight forward way to implement CI/CD for Terraform. Managing secrets for actions can get tricky, depending on the workload.

Also, if the dependencies or requirements of the project start to become unwieldy, it might be better to move to a CI/CD platform like AWS CodeBuild, Jenkins, CircleCI etc. Considerations should be made around bundling a deploy script that needs update/maintenance. With a micro-services architecture it might be better to put the deployment tooling/python script in it's own repo, then have N+ Terraform repos consume it. It could also become it's own git-action as well.

Q: What are some security considerations when using Terraform to manage cloud infrastructure?

A: The statefile can contain secrets in the clear. It needs to be locked down, and should have cloud native encryption enabled. ie KMS keys. Another consideration would be denial-of-service, if termination and delete protection is not thought out and enabled for production workloads. Terraform and automation make it easy to accidentially delete production resources.

Q: How would you configure Kubernetes Ingress to expose applications running on the GKE cluster?

A: I would setup a "gce" annotation and add rules to specific services.

<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
## Terraform

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_google"></a> [google](#provider\_google) | 6.5.0 |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_autoscaling_max_node_count"></a> [autoscaling\_max\_node\_count](#input\_autoscaling\_max\_node\_count) | Max number of nodes to scale up to | `number` | `2` | no |
| <a name="input_custom_metrics_email"></a> [custom\_metrics\_email](#input\_custom\_metrics\_email) | Email to receive custom metric alerts | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_deletion_protection"></a> [deletion\_protection](#input\_deletion\_protection) | Prevent terraform from nuking the cluster if true | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_gcloud_env"></a> [gcloud\_env](#input\_gcloud\_env) | Environment to deploy into. ie production, staging, development | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_gke_cluster_name"></a> [gke\_cluster\_name](#input\_gke\_cluster\_name) | GKE cluster name | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_guest_accelerator_count"></a> [guest\_accelerator\_count](#input\_guest\_accelerator\_count) | Guest accelerator count. | `string` | `2` | no |
| <a name="input_machine_type"></a> [machine\_type](#input\_machine\_type) | Default machine\_type | `string` | `"e2-micro"` | no |
| <a name="input_node_pool_disk_size_gb"></a> [node\_pool\_disk\_size\_gb](#input\_node\_pool\_disk\_size\_gb) | Default disk size for nodes. | `string` | `"50"` | no |
| <a name="input_project_id"></a> [project\_id](#input\_project\_id) | Default gcloud project to launch this cluster into | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_project_name"></a> [project\_name](#input\_project\_name) | Project name, typically the git repository | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_region"></a> [region](#input\_region) | Region for subnets | `string` | `"us-central1"` | no |
| <a name="input_release_channel"></a> [release\_channel](#input\_release\_channel) | Set the release channel, RAPID, REGULAR, STABLE | `string` | `"REGULAR"` | no |
| <a name="input_service_account_name"></a> [service\_account\_name](#input\_service\_account\_name) | gcloud service account name to use. | `string` | `"terraform"` | no |
| <a name="input_skip_service_account_creation"></a> [skip\_service\_account\_creation](#input\_skip\_service\_account\_creation) | Ignore creating new service account if the name already exists. | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_subnet"></a> [subnet](#input\_subnet) | Primary project\_id subnet cidr range | `string` | `"10.0.0.0/16"` | no |
| <a name="input_use_guest_accelerator"></a> [use\_guest\_accelerator](#input\_use\_guest\_accelerator) | Use guest accelerator | `bool` | `false` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_cluster_ca_certificate"></a> [cluster\_ca\_certificate](#output\_cluster\_ca\_certificate) | Root certificate of the cluster |
| <a name="output_cluster_endpoint"></a> [cluster\_endpoint](#output\_cluster\_endpoint) | Cluster Endpoint |
| <a name="output_cluster_id"></a> [cluster\_id](#output\_cluster\_id) | Cluster ID |
| <a name="output_cluster_name"></a> [cluster\_name](#output\_cluster\_name) | Cluster Name |
| <a name="output_container_admin_iam_member_role"></a> [container\_admin\_iam\_member\_role](#output\_container\_admin\_iam\_member\_role) | n/a |
| <a name="output_logging_dashboard_url"></a> [logging\_dashboard\_url](#output\_logging\_dashboard\_url) | n/a |
| <a name="output_monitoring_dashboard_url"></a> [monitoring\_dashboard\_url](#output\_monitoring\_dashboard\_url) | n/a |
| <a name="output_network_admin_iam_member_role"></a> [network\_admin\_iam\_member\_role](#output\_network\_admin\_iam\_member\_role) | n/a |
| <a name="output_network_name"></a> [network\_name](#output\_network\_name) | n/a |
| <a name="output_network_self_link"></a> [network\_self\_link](#output\_network\_self\_link) | n/a |
| <a name="output_node_pool_id"></a> [node\_pool\_id](#output\_node\_pool\_id) | Node pool Id |
| <a name="output_service_account_email"></a> [service\_account\_email](#output\_service\_account\_email) | n/a |
| <a name="output_service_account_id"></a> [service\_account\_id](#output\_service\_account\_id) | n/a |
| <a name="output_subnetwork_ip_range"></a> [subnetwork\_ip\_range](#output\_subnetwork\_ip\_range) | n/a |
| <a name="output_subnetwork_name"></a> [subnetwork\_name](#output\_subnetwork\_name) | n/a |
| <a name="output_subnetwork_region"></a> [subnetwork\_region](#output\_subnetwork\_region) | n/a |
| <a name="output_subnetwork_self_link"></a> [subnetwork\_self\_link](#output\_subnetwork\_self\_link) | n/a |
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->

## Diagram

<div align=center>
<img src="diagram.svg" alt="diagram" width="300"/>
</div>
